So we added a lot of options
and in the last lecture, we added actions. Now actually, it would be nice if we could react to clicks on our
notification, either on the notification itself or on one of our actions.
We can do this but this happens in the service worker,
why does it happen in the service worker, that's a core question. The answer is a notification,
keep that in mind is a system feature,
it's not displayed in our web application, it's not HTML or something like that, it's displayed by the
operating system.
Hence the user may interact with it when our page isn't even opened,
infact this is something
service workers are about, they run in the background
and for example when using Chrome on Android, you will get notifications even if your application is
closed, even if the browser is closed.
This is why you have to interact with user actions on the notification
in this background process which is always running, which is your service worker.
So there at the very bottom of this file, after this sync event,
I'll add a new event listener.
I'll just make some space so that we have this code here in the middle.
So here I'll add an event listener and I listen on a special event, the notification click event. Now notification
click as you might guess is executed whenever the user clicks on some notification thrown by this service
worker, which clearly is the case for our existing notification. In there,
we can now get some information from that click.
First of all we can find out which notification it was, so we can retrieve the notification by accessing
event notification. Now we can also find out which action was clicked,
so the action is event action.
These are two useful pieces of information
and first of all, we can simply log the notification here if we want, to see what's inside it.
We can also check if the action is equal to confirm and keep in mind, confirm here,
that is basically the idea I set up in app.js, here this action ID.
So if this button is clicked, the action will be confirm in the service worker
too, so this is what I'm retrieving, action simply is that ID I assigned.
So if that's confirmed, we could console log confirm was chosen.
We in this case maybe also want to close the notification, something which will happen automatically
on some operating systems but on others, for example on Android, the notification stays in the top bar.
So with notification close, notification is the notification we retrieved from the event, you can get
rid of it because the user interacted with it,
you probably want to get rid of the notification.
Now let's say in the other case, that the notification wasn't confirm,
for now I simply want to log the action to see what the action was.
And later in this course, I will revisit this and show you how you can actually open a specific page
in your application when the user clicks on a notification because that often times is what you want
to do.
You show a notification and the user currently doesn't even have the browser open, you want you open
the browser for the user and navigate to one of your pages
but again, more on this later.
For now let's see how this works,
notification click.
So as always,
let's head back to our application, go to application and clear the site data, reload the page and let's
click on enable notifications.
Now it's showing up on my different screen and you can't see it there
but I will now click OK,
watch the console log.
You'll see
confirm was chosen
and you see the notification I output.
Here you see some information about the notification,
basically what we set up, the batch, the body, you'll see it also converted icon and batch to full
URLs,
that's what I meant,
you could have passed them right from the start
and you see basically the setup we used as well as the timestamp when this notification was sent.
So that's very useful to find out
and again you also see the action I chose was confirmed.
Now if I click another action or the notification itself, you'll see in the case I click the notification
itself, nothing is output because action isn't set in this case,
I didn't pick an action, I just clicked on the notification itself.
If I click the cancel notification action, you see cancel because we just output the action here.
So that's how we can react to clicks on the notification or one of the actions,
again more about this later. In the next lecture,
I first want to dive into how we can actually listen to the notification getting closed, though before
we do that, let's make sure we also close it manually here on a click in the else case
and of course you could simply put this after the
if else statement all together.
But now let's move on to listening to notification closes and let's find out what a close actually is.